Date: 22-04-2026
Agenda for today

git checkout -b main origin/main --> Creating a main branch and matching the main branch in local to remote


Today's topic includes explaining the pipeline.yml

trigger
-develop ----> this means whenever there is a commit in the develop, the pipeline should trigger

pool:
    vmImage: 'windows-latest'
In general, all .Net projects will be run in Windows machine.

variables:
    solution: '**/*.slnx'
    buildPlatform: 'Any CPU' --> Any CPU can be used for running
    buildConfiguration: 'Release'
All reusuable code will be written in variables.

steps:
- task: NuGetToolInstaller@1 --> Package Manager and installer. Since windows machine is a new one, it will not have Nuget installed. So, we are installing it.
- task: NuGetCommand@2

inputs:
  restoreSolution: '$(solution)'
downloads the dependencies listed

- task: VSBuild@1
  inputs:
    solution: '$(solution)' --> Pasing the solution


    msbuildArgs: 
    '/p:DeployOnBuild=true --> Automatically triggers deployment after publish
    /p:WebPublishMethod=Package  --> Telling the pipeline to create a deployment package(.zip/.exe)
    /p:PackageAsSingleFile=true --> Pack everything as a single file
    /p:SkipInvalidConfigurations=true --> Skip all the invalid configurations
    /p:PackageLocation="$(build.artifactStagingDirectory)"' --> There is a location of artifact staging directory
    platform: '$(buildPlatform)' --> Mentioned above in the variables to use any Platform
    configuration: '$(buildConfiguration)' --> Mentioned above in the variables to use any config

$(build.artifactStagingDirectory) is a variable. All the variables will start with $('')

build.artifactStagingDirectory is location where the packages will be stored post building
Once the package is created, it will be pushed to Azure DevOps and the destination location name is drop

In the drop location, we will get .dll file..
In windows short lived server, IIS Server needs .dll file(compiled output) for hosting the application either it might be WebApp or Container

2 types of triggers:
1. GUI Option - "Override the YAML continuous integration trigger from here" - This should be unchecked. So that, all the triggers mentioned in the azure-pipelines.yml will work.
2. trigger parameter in azure-pipelines.yml

solution file vs .dll file ---> 