Date: 21-04-2026
Agenda for today

For CI CD pipelines, Azure Devops and Github actions will be taught in this course

Lets create a web application for SBI Savings account with few features

Developer activity -> .Net code will be developed and the code will be pushed to Azure repos
Devops activity -> CI part and CD part
CI -> Continuous Integration
CD -> Continuous Development and Continuous Deployment

CI -> Azure pipelines will be written in yaml files(.yml/.yaml)
Source code will be pushed from Azure repos to CI 

CI phase includes Building the project
Once the code is packed, the package output will be in .zip/.exe format.

In Azure DevOps(It is just a platform), Azure repos is a service like git.

For us to pack the source code to package, we need Microsoft windows or some OS since Azure DevOps will not have any kind of server.

Once the CI is ran, one short lived server will be created and the source code will be pushed into this short lived server.
The server complies the code into a package and create a runnable app and the complied code will be pushed to Artifact to store in Azure DevOps

Next step is to push the artifact to CD.
In CD, we will be having multiple options like Server, Container, Pod, Webapp



Developer
Push to azure repos
Source code in Azure Devops
Package manager --> nuget, dotnet. These managers will download all the packages/libraries/dependencies mentioned in the code.
Pipelines in CI
generate a zip in CI

Note:
libraries - reusable code
packages - Bundled unit of code
dependencies - Something our project needs

VS - Platform to build applications
VSC - Just an Editor

From Visual Studio, a basic template code will be created. The same has to be pushed to Azure DevOps.
In Azure Repos, create a pipeline using template of .ASP Net
.slnx is the New format of Solution for CI
today Agenda is only
Set up CI with Azure Pipelines