Date: 18-06-2026
Agenda for today

Helm charts
Usually, APT, YUM-> Package managers for linux

Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes.
helmCLI --> K8s API Server --> K8s Cluster
helmCLI is a layer on top of K8s API Server.
With Helm, we can upgrade, rollback, install, and manage versions of our applications.

Helm charts has few repositories which connects and downloads the charts from the repositories. Helm charts are used to define, install, and upgrade even the most complex Kubernetes applications. Helm charts are a collection of files that describe a related set of Kubernetes resources.

artifacthub.io - WE can drectly download the charts from artifacthub.io. We can also create our own helm charts and push it to artifacthub.io.

Helm charts are indirectly installing from Docker only.

kubeadm join 10.0.0.4:6443 --token wtov4p.u1fefr4k0214t5be \
        --discovery-token-ca-cert-hash sha256:573dfea5826b2b55a61ff169f4aa71dab349ef1321f0ae343ca657ee9294cc0a

Helm charts are packages (like rpms). It contains pre-configured Kubernetes resources
such as

.ConfigMaps
.Deployments
.Services

Helm is the package manager for Kubernetes (like yum) that allows easily package,
configure, and deploy applications onto Kubernetes clusters.
Architecture: Helm installs charts into Kubernetes, creating a new release for each
installation. And to find new charts, you can search Helm chart repositories.
.Repository is the place where charts can be collected and shared.
.Chart is a Helm package. It contains all of the resource definitions necessary to run an application on Kubernetes Cluster.
.Release is an instance of a chart running in a Kubernetes cluster.

