Date: 15-06-2026
Agenda for today

Stateful sets
Stateful sets are used to manage stateful applications. It is a Kubernetes controller that manages the deployment and scaling of a set of pods, and provides guarantees about the ordering and uniqueness of these pods.

if an pod is deleted, new name of Pod will be created and it is not acceptable for stateful applications. So, we use Stateful sets to manage stateful applications. It provides stable network identity and persistent storage for the pods.
Stateful sets are used for applications that require stable pod name, network identities, such as databases, and for applications that require persistent storage, such as stateful applications. Stateful sets provide guarantees about the ordering and uniqueness of the pods, which is important for stateful applications.

Examples of stateful applications include:
1. Databases such as MySQL, PostgreSQL, and MongoDB
2. Redis, Kafka, Zookeeper

pv -- > 5GB -- > accidentally the pod got destroyed -- > data shouldretain
pvc -- > 5GB
secret -- > db password
mysql pod -- > statefullset deployment


Even if the pod are destroyed, the persistent volume should retain the data.
persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy: Retain

In the Previous session, we have deployed the persistent volume. For that, volume has been allocated in the VM SKU that has been deployed. So, if the pod is destroyed, the data will be retained in the persistent volume. We can use the same persistent volume to create a new pod and attach it to the new pod. This way, we can ensure that the data is not lost even if the pod is destroyed.

Now, we will see the stateful sets deployment using the Azure Storage account 

Custom container



Next day doubt:
In Jenkins, an agent is created to run the Jenkins jobs. THe agent will pull the code and do all the operations. Is that agent a container or pod or what ?